# Java Based Traffic Simulator
## Program Working Document
## CP2406 Programming 3 Kaung Khant Win 13807938

### Specification
The client needs a way to be able to simulate traffic in city areas; needing to simulate different vehicle types 
behaviour with traffic lights, roads and intersections. The program will be console based for this iteration, and will 
be used in the console. Taking inputs from the user and displaying the status of objects within the simulation to the 
user. This version of the program will be able to simulate a single car moving along a single lane road, interact with 
a traffic light, move to a second road connected to the first, representing a very basic intersection, and move to the 
end of that road.

### Decomposition
The problem can be broken into operate objects that interact with each other to achieve the desired behaviour. 
These objects include;

#### Car
The car class will be an object that describes an average size road vehicle. Holding the following attributes; 
- *id* – a unique identifier that will differentiate each car.
- *Length* – the physical space the car occupies longways.
- *Breadth* – the physical space the car occupies widthways, half the cars length.
- *Speed* – how far the car moves for each simulation turn.
- *Position* – where the car is located on a road.
-	*Current Road* – the road the car is currently traveling on.

The car will be able to move, using the mode of movement (), within the simulation along the road depending on its speed, and the speed will be determined by the maximum speed of the road the car is travelling on. When the car is in the same traffic light mode it will check its condition before moving, if the red light will stop, and if the light is green it will move to the next road. When the position of the cars is equal to the end of the road and there is no connected road, it stops finishing the simulation.

##### Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of car, describing a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

##### Motorbike
The motorbike class will be a subclass of car, describing a small road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes from and behaviour from Car except its length will be defined as being half that of the car’s length.

#### Road
The road class will be an object that describes a single lane road. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road
- *Speed limit* – the maximum speed that cars on that road may travel at.
-	*Length* – the number of segments the road is comprised of and the physical space it occupies.
-	*Start location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road begins.
-	*End location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road ends.
-	*Connected roads* – all of the roads that this road is physically connected to.
-	*Lights on the road* – all the traffic lights that are on the ends this road.
-	*Cars on the road* – all of the cars that are currently traveling on this road.

For the first version of the program, the speed will be fixed and controlled on 1. In other words, the car will only be able to move in one position at each turn, making it easier to handle traffic lights and road ends. The length of the route will be variable depending on the user's input. Roads will interact with other routes by connecting to them, creating a very basic intersection with only one option a car can take. Cars will move along the road from the starting position (1) to the final position, depending on the length of the road. Traffic lights can only be placed in the final position of the road.

#### Traffic Light
The traffic light class will represent a simple red or green traffic light. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each traffic light.
- *State* - the colour the ligth is displaying.
- *Position* - where the traffic light is located on the road.
- *Road attached to* - the road that the light is attached to.

The traffic light will operate, using the opperate() method. Randomly changing from green to red. This opperation will be based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be located on a road only at its final position, the end of the road, and will interact with cars that are also at that position. If the light is red the cars will stop and not move to the next road. If the light is green the cars will continue past and move to the next road.

### Main
This class will have the main() method that will contain the simulation loop.

All the objects needed for the simulation will be created here; creating roads, a car and a traffic light. Locations for roads and thier connection will also be set here. For this version of the program the user will only have conrol over the lenght of the road and the speed the simulation runs at. The simulation will run, moving the car and operating traffic lights, untill the car can no longer move and has come to a stop.
